Ah, Freeman. I see you are in this mess too.
I am not at all sure.
Be careful. No, not again!
Thank god, someone with a weapon.
Have you ever seen such a magnificent species? These crabs can completely control their hosts' nervous system. Can you imagine what the next stage of mutation looks like?
You are completely wrong.
Killed by a Barnacle
I'm not Dr. Rosenberg.
This is all within theoretical limits.
Psst, over here.
I hear something.
Do you smell something burning?
Okay. I will wait here. 
Yes, let's go.
Excuse me, but I'm rather busy right now.
Don't linger, Mr. Freeman! You've turned on the pumps. Now take the access pipe, flood the core, and get on up to the labs without delay!
Very good. We'll take it from here.
Hold still, this won't hurt a bit.
Did you hear that?
Four thousand.
Any ideas on the origin of that new sample?
I'm seeing predictable phase arrays.
Sniffle
You're heading for the Lambda Complex, aren't you? I was heading there myself, until I wound up here and...well, simply lost my nerve. Take one look through that door and you'll see what I mean. I'm just going to wait out the catastrophe in here. If you intend to go on, then I beg of you...proceed with extreme caution.
Do you suspect some alien subterfuge behind this failure?
You've got to believe me. Freeman could be anywhere!
Please, leave me alone! I have very important work to do.
It's not our fault, I tell you.
Let me tell you something else. I've seen a lot of spinals and this guy is a fake. I've never been more certain of anything in my life.
Get out of there! Run, man, run!
Oh, I'll get the door for you. They should be able to get you back into the security database in the next room.
It appears that you need medical attention right away.
Are you seriously suggesting that all of these beings are here to dine on us?
You can't be serious.
Oh my!
I don't think I can last much longer.
Yes. So...if you're willing, my colleague is waiting for you at the main portal controls. He will open the gates for you, Mr. Freeman. Do hurry.
Shut up.
Fire the...rocket engine. Destroy the damned thing before it grows any larger!
Are you sure this is the right way?
Scientist expectorating in one of the bathroom stalls in Sector C.
What? You're leaving me here?
No. I'm afraid I'm not Dr. Rosenberg.
Ah yes, you're right. Gordon, we have complete confidence in you.
Good work! Those new suits can be tricky. Please proceed to the next area. 
Well, i think it's rather stimulating, don't you?
The Administrator is very concerned that we get a conclusive analysis of today's sample. I gather they went to some lengths to get it.
You're going to have to leave me here, Gordon.
I don't think so.
Well, it's about time! We don't pay you people to mosey around at your own convenience. Make this thing work, so we can get on with this miserable day!
Gordon, are you not hearing me? Climb up and start the rotors, please.
This, Mr. Freeman, is a Long Jump Module, created expressly for navigation in the world beyond. I certainly hope you received Long-Jump Training, because once you're in Xen, you will need it. I would advise you to practice before crossing over.
Have you heard? They're killing scientists. Our own race turning against us. I think I'll stay here and take my chances with the creatures.
I believe something smells quite foul here.
This is the supply depot for our first survey team. Quite a few handsome specimens were collected from the borderworld and brought back this way—uhh, before the survey members started being collected themselves, that is. We suspect there is an immense portal over there, created by the intense concentration of a single powerful being. You will know it when you see it. I hate to say this, Gordon, but you must kill it, if you can.
My goodness!
I hope that odor isn't coming from you.
Hello? Where are you going? Sir! Please!
Absolutely not.
Excuse me, but I think the Xena convention is back down the hall and to the left.
Yawn
Why just look at those peculiar markings.
Is someone there? I-I can't see a thing. 
Lead the way.
I can't access my files. I can't answer my mail. I haven't even able to get into my office.
Don't you find this all rather fascinating?
Greetings.
Gordon, you're alive! Thank God for that hazard suit. I'm afraid to move him, and all our phones are out. Please, get to the surface as soon as you can, and let someone know we're stranded down here. You'll need me to activate the retinal scanners. I'm sure the rest of the science team will gladly help you. 
Hello.
One thousand.
I just overheard a secure access transmission...soldiers have arrived and they're coming to rescue us. Of course, I have my doubts that we'll live long enough to greet them.
Well, I seem to be seriously wounded.
Take me with you! I'm the one man who knows everything!
I can get you some valuable supplies, if you'll protect me.
What? No! That's an idiotic thing to ask.
Doctor Cross. Doctor Green.
Gordon, we cannot predict how long the system can operate at this level, nor how long the reading will take. Please work as quickly as you can.
Three, four, five...
You're going to have to leave me here.
Perhaps.
Do you think we should appeal to the alien authorities?
Do you still say there's nothing to chaos theory?
It can't get any worse than this.
Once we were able to consistently create the teleporter field, we ran into new problems. You see, Mr. Calhoun, teleportation isn't as simple as going from point A to point B. We discovered a strange borderworld that was somehow involved in the process, and this kept us from accurately predicting where any given teleportation event would lead to back on Earth. Some of the more promising research on the matter led to a device that could be attached to the strange crystalline structures we found in this borderworld. This device could then be used as a focal point and relay to aid in the teleportation. Well, in theory that is. We lost contact with the survey group shortly after the device was in place. We later discovered other methods of aiming the field, but all the equipment in this lab uses the older technology. In order any of us to get out of here alive, someone will need go to the borderworld, and activate the device. I'm afraid you're the only one that can do this, seeing as how everyone else will be needed to run the equipment. We should be able get you fairly close to where survey team had set up, but I fear the likelihood of running into alien creatures is very high. Be careful! 
Please, leave me alone until after the experiment.
This is as far as I go.
Not yet, Freeman!
Thank you, Mr. Freeman. You are Gordon Freeman, aren't you? The one they're expecting in the Lambda Complex? If you can figure a way past that Gargantua on the landing field and through the bunker door out there, you'll find yourself at the Lambda Lab's doorstep.
Yes, I sincerely hope you know what you are doing.
Is anyone else getting hungry?
I would love to do that, but the area bombardment has made a wreck of my transmitter, the cables are separate, we have to aim it by hand and I'm getting high radiation levels in the transmitter dome. Nobody but a fool would go in there. 
All displacement modulators were tuned today, weren't they?
Yes, of course, the drainage canal. I think that empties out somewhere near the freight yard. If we're lucky, we can make our way out of the facility from there.
Thank god, a security guard!
I must remember to report that fluctuation.
Power to stage one emitters in three...two...one...
Freeman.
Ah, yes, Walter. We were finally able to successfully detach one of the Barnacle creatures from its point of gestation. As before, we were still only able to coerce the creature into latching onto organic materials. Unfortunately, the Administrator has called me down to the Anomalous Materials lab this morning for an important experiment, so I don't have any time to further my analysis. Take specimen number 1176 and log anything else you can find.
Gordon, I'm very concerned about these electrical forcefield barriers. What will happen if we have a power outage?
Have you been able to get the beverage machine to work yet?
Do you smell what I smell?
I'm sorry, but those doors will not open until we send the "All-Clear". 
Ah, hello, ladies. It's good to see you.
It won't shut down!
Gordon Freeman—it is you, isn't it? The science team has been tracking your progress with the Black Mesa security system. Unfortunately, so has the military. That suit of yours is full of tracking devices. Still, it's better than going naked in this place. It's cold in there and you'll have to hurry. It could sap your suit power in a matter of moments. If you're bent on reaching the Lambda complex, then you'll want to keep to the older industrial areas, where the security system is full of holes. It's worked for me so far.
I can't be bothered right now.
You have no idea what is going on, do you?
Yes. You could survive in that suit of yours. Very well. I will lower security on the satellite access elevator, and you can go up into the dome. I'll try to help you over the intercom. 
Have I been that much of a burden?
I'll wait right here.
Hello there.
I have no doubt.
Don't worry, I am a doctor.
I suppose a security guard should know what he's doing. Let's go.
Please don't move while I scan for re-registration into the security database. It will be over before you know it, Doctor Green.
Well, so much for the government. Their idea of containment is to kill everyone associated with the project! Judging from your hazard suit, I'd say you were part of what went wrong—isn't that right? Now look...if anyone can end this catastrophe, it's the science team in the Lambda Complex, at the opposite end of the base. With the transit system out, I couldn't tell you how to get there. But there's an old decommissioned rail system somewhere through here—beyond the silo complex. If you can make it through the rocket test labs, you might be able to worm your way through the old tunnels to track down whatever's left of the Lambda team. You can trust them. You can trust all of us. Good luck.
We tried to warn them. 
Hello. It's no surprise that a fellow scientist found her way through the ceiling hatch before any of those damned soldiers. They came after me, so I locked myself in here, but they may have got the best of me anyway.
I don't know what's worse: You soldiers under orders to silence the facility or these vile aliens.
I'm slowing you down, am I?
If I have to ride that tram one more time I'm gonna...
All right, Gordon, your suit should keep you comfortable through all this. The specimen will be delivered to you in a few moments. If you would be so good as to climb up and start the rotors, we can bring the Anti-Mass Spectrometer to eighty percent and hold it there until the carrier arrives.
Be careful, Gordon. 
No, I don't want to die!
Excellent. I'm sending the "All-Clear" and the door should open now. We'll meet you down below. 
A fellow scientist.
Excuse me, Gordon, but I'm rather busy now.
Excellent, someone who knows how to use a gun.
Get him out of there! Shut down the equipment and someone get him out!
Hm, what a peculiar odor.
Killing me will in no way advance this situation.
This should help.
The sample was just delivered to the test chamber.
Look out!
Do you recall any of those emergency survival procedures?
Ah, it's good to see you.
A failure of this magnitude is extremely improbable.
Ah, Gordon, here you are. We just sent the sample down to the Test Chamber.
Rescued at last!
I never thought I'd see a Resonance Cascade, let alone create one.
I believe so.
I predicted all of this, you know. All of it!
I wonder if I should run that test again.
Alright.
Well, I'll let you out, but I'm warning you...it's hell out there. It's completely under military control. You'll have to sneak and fight your way from one end to the other, and I don't expect you'll meet many of our peers along the way. But if you do survive and somehow make it across the base, you'll end up at the Lambda Complex, where the rest of the science team has taken shelter. I wouldn't venture there myself, but I will let them know that you are coming.
Kindly lower your voice.
Why do you security guards always insist on bothering us?
Fat lot of good that Ph.D. does me now, hm?
Do you think that, perhaps, I could have a crowbar of my own? Perhaps, then, an automatic rifle?
Fine. You won't even know I'm here.
Gordon doesn't need to hear all this. He's a highly trained professional. We have assured the Administrator that nothing will go wrong.
Why look, another Headcrab!
It's good to see another living human being.
I can't take much more of this.
It's not too late for you, though. Grab some of this military weaponry and see if you can take that Osprey out of the sky. At least that will stop their reinforcements.
I can give you something for the pain.
Didn't you just ask me that?
Time? I don't have anymore time! If I'm not able to get my report to the administrator in the next hour, then my job will be in serious jeopardy, and I'll make sure that mine is not the only one.
Shouldn't you be guarding some donuts and coffee right about now?
I know. We are hoping that Gordon Freeman can accomplish the launch, but he can't launch it after an emergency shut down unless the all-clear signal is uploaded to the Black Mesa air traffic systems. We don't have access either to the code or the air traffic systems, but we believe the code should be in the high security file room quite close to where you are and the air control computer is at the air field directly over the Central Transit Hub.
Most of the simulation results are perfectly acceptable, you know.
Overhead capacitors to one oh five percent.
Yes, this all looks nominal.
Why do we all have to wear these ridiculous ties?
Well, do you have any idea what to do next?
Ah, Freeman.
Don't you have your own job to be doing?
If you let us all die, Freeman, you'll never get out of here!
Stop asking that question.
Hello, Freeman. I'm up here. Hurry up!
Don't shoot! I'm with the science team!
I'll be right behind you.
Sneeze
Psst! Over here.
Please, leave me alone. I don't want them to hear us. If you want to escape, go through the canal.
We're almost there, Freeman. Get yourself in position.
You'll need me to activate the retinal scanners.
Aren't you a bit worried about that exponential cascade scenario we discussed?
Now where did I leave that shutdown procedure chart?
Oh, you've woken up. Corporal Shephard, is it? I've read the tag on your uniform. I'm glad to see my life saving efforts weren't in vain. I can't say the same for him. I'm afraid you have been through a serious accident. Most of your friends didn't make it. I was hoping that you soldiers had come to rescue us, but now it seems we are all in the same situation. I think I saw a radio near the crash site where I found you. Perhaps you can go there and radio for help?
Wha-what's he doing in there?
Excuse me, Gordon.
Shutting down. Attempting shut down. It's not...it's-it's not...it's not shutting down...it's not...
Thank you for releasing me. I can help you access any secured area in this lab.
Okay. I'll wait out here and watch for trouble.
Let's try this.
If I were a braver man, I would run for the surface. But I'm afraid if the world finds out what we were doing here, Gordon. But please, just don't make me come with you.
I appreciate your help, but I'm afraid those bastards did their damage already. If you were trying to reach the freight yards in hope of escaping, then just forget about it. The military is rounding up everyone and everything they can find, and either killing them or bringing them up here for questioning. So much for a rescue. 
I've got to get out of here!
You, with the briefcase. You've got to help me out of here!
Who are you? I've been waiting here for ages hoping someone would come along.
A scientist, thank God! Get us out of here before those military drones figure out where we're hiding!
Fear
Did you submit your status report to the Administrator today?
Absolutely.
I certainly hope you know what you're doing.
Yes, okay.
Yes. I will follow you, if you wish. 
Standard insertion for a nonstandard specimen. Go ahead, Gordon. Slot the carrier into the analysis port.
You know, theoretically, this is impossible.
The military cleanup is just a paranoid rumor, isn't it?
I suspected this could happen but the Administrator just would not listen.
Ah, you've been wounded.
Someone has hidden my glasses again.
It's inconclusive.
Those things, they're everywhere! We've got to get out of here!
No...No! No! Get it off me! Get it off! Get it off!
Don't you have more important things to be doing than keeping me from my work?
I refuse to go another step.
Positively.
Calhoun, how did you get through the power lock? Well, it doesn't matter. The only other way out of here is through the canal. If you do make it to the surface, don't tell anyone I'm down here. I think they're trying to kill us all. Now get out of here! The canal is where you want to be.
There's something you should see.
Don't be a fool!
Do you know who ate all the donuts?
Stand by.
Ah, Doctor. It's good to hear your voice. We have been trying contact the central security station for quite some time. We are trying to stop the alien influx, but something is preventing us from doing so. Some sort of energy directed from the other side seems to be holding the dimensional breach open by force. Our sensors are too close to the anomaly to give us clean readings on the rift. We must use the Omega satellite. We tried to launch the delivery rocket, but those soldiers seem to have shut down the launch sequence.
Put that down—it's a prototype.
Fascinating. I never suspected such things could be.
Well, there goes our grant money.
Are you running those tunneling lattice calculations again?
Hold yourself together! If we don't get the power cells charged, then we'll never make it out of here! 
Sorry, I'm leaving now.
Thank you. We have much work to do here, but we'll keep in touch.
That sound... what is it?
Interesting.
I don't know! I've never seen that species before!
I couldn't even venture a guess.
Nature made them. We were only studying them.
Freeman, you fool!
This should shake up those grand unification boys, hm?
This analysis is going to run perfectly today, don't you think?
Wouldn't it be fantastic to get some pure readings for a change?
It wasn't meant to do this in the first place!
This should make you feel better.
Don't be ridiculous!
I believe this will make for a notable paper, don't you?
You look terrible.
Doctor Rosenberg, thank God you made it! We've managed to piece together some of the larger equipment, but you'll need to oversee the rest of the construction. 
No, stay back! Gordon!
I'm afraid we'll be deviating a bit from standard analysis procedures today, Gordon.
Shouldn't you be under the barrel now?
Why are you asking me?
Oh no!
Surely someone will come and rescue us.
What is that stench?
Stop attacking, he's a friend!
I apologize, Mr. Freeman, but I couldn't risk opening that door until I was sure you'd scoured the area. This is the last entrance to the Lambda Complex—every other has been sealed off to contain the invasion. When we realized that you might actually make it here, we drew straws to see who should stay behind to let you through. Obviously, I drew the short one. My colleagues are waiting at the tip of the Lambda reactor...waiting for you, I mean. The reactor is shut down right now, but you can activate it on your way up. You'll have to flood the core anyway to get into the teleportation labs. You're not authorized to know about those...but I can see you already know a great deal more than any one man is supposed to.
Put that thing down! Why must you security guards always insist on playing with our prototypes.
I'm sure of it.
I was hoping you'd show up. You must get this power cell charged and back up to Dr. Rosenberg. I'd help, but I'm hurt pretty bad. 
Theoretically.
I hope no one expects me to start up the generator. Smithers went down there and never came back.
That's odd.
Excellent! Someone has restored all power! We'll have the engine up again in no time!
Climb up and start the rotors.
Uh, I only know the ID number to Gordon's HEV suit. No others. Couldn't you just let me go?
I believe you have an experiment to assist.
In order to override it, the all-clear code must be entered into the air control computer at the air field directly over the central transit hub.
Stop!
We all have retinal scanner access. Escort us to the lobby, and we can get out of the lab.
Can you help me get out of here?
While this may be your idea of fun, I prefer long walks on a sandy beach as the sun sets.
Don't you think we should recalculate those resonance dampening factors again?
Rescued at last! Thank God you're here!
Do you know what the word "koso" is referring to, exactly?
Did you understand that last announcement?
They're waiting for you, Gordon. In the Test Chamber.
I'm not certain.
I hope those people in the Lambda Lab can get this under control.
With my brains and your brawn we'll make an excellent team.
You aren't going soft on that ethics issue again, are you?
No, I haven't, but a friend of mine...
Thank God you're here!
Oh dear, why aren't these sensors working? I wonder if they're needed for today's training run.
I really don't know.
A colleague and I came up with our plan for escape, and we were on our way to one of the old prototype labs when we ran into them. But listen to me, if you still want to get out of here alive, your only hope may be to find my friend. If you can get pass the soldiers, find Dr. Rosenberg. With him, you may have a chance to get out of this place. 
Good work! Please proceed to the next area.
Hello, Freeman—I'm up here. Practice your Long-Jump if you must, but hurry up!
Very good! I hardly noticed you. Move on to the next area. 
Please! Don't kill me.
Weren't you supposed to be in the test chamber half an hour ago?
It's much too unpredictable. Don't let it overcharge!
Big day today, Freeman.
Were you in weapons research, too? I built the Gluon Gun, but I just can't bring myself to use it on a living creature. You don't look as if you have any trouble killing things.
Scream
That smell is, eh... interesting.
I'm not so sure I want to get to the surface. What if the world finds out what we were doing down here?
Ah, you have one of the new HEV suits. That should be very useful.
Do you think we should delay for another recalibration?
Where am I? I've got to get out of here!
Freeman! Who would have thought you'd still be alive?
One at a time, please.
Now, now, if you follow standard insertion procedures, everything will be fine.
Oh dear!
And potentially the most unstable!
I suppose I can help.
Yes.
Of course!
Hmm, right. Something must be jammed. See if there's anything interfering with the lift machinery in the test chamber below. I'll continue trying to operate the lift from here.
He waited too long! We can't contain it!
I don't know how you can say that. Although I will admit that the possibility of a resonance cascade scenario is extremely unlikely, I remain uncomfortable with the...
That shouldn't happen.
You can probably push the power cell through the fence into the charging station behind me. Let me see if I can get out of the way. 
Who is responsible for this mess?
That way looks dangerous. I'm staying here.
Two thousand.
Freeman! What a relief to see you. We've been tracking your progress. I've stayed behind to let you into the Reactor Complex. You'll need me to activate the retinal scanner.
Okay, let's get out of here.
Someone help! She's gone mad!
Wasn't Dr. Keller looking for you?
Let me help you.
Wait a minute and I'll let you in.
Three thousand.
Oh no. It's probably those Anomalous Materials people again. Always pushing their equipment too hard, dabbling in who knows what. I'd be surprised if there's one good brain among them!
Well, if you think I can help.
The least they could do is let us wear differing ties. I really don't understand this uniform policy.
Very interesting.
I hope those containment parameters are still nominal.
OK, very good... And if there are no questions, then please step through this door to begin your training.
Haven't you heard of safety in numbers?
Ah, hello, Gordon Freeman. It's good to see you.
I...I can't hold on much...longer...
Gordon! If I'd known it was you, I'd have let you in! Everyone's heading for the surface, but I think they're crazy not to stay put. Someone is bound to come by and rescue us.
Our sensors are too close to the anomaly to give us clean readings on the rift. We must use the Omega satellite, but the satellite communications equipment has gone into an emergency shut down.
Glad to oblige a fellow scientist.
I'll wait.
Testing...testing... Everything seems to be in order.
If you're waiting for the tram to Sector G, then you're probably better off walking it. I overheard someone say that all the trams on this end of the facility are having problems.
Did you see it? They said it was hauled from the Challenger Deep, but I'm positive that beast never swam in terrestrial waters until a week ago. There's a tranquilizer gun in the shark cage, but I'm not sure it would work on this species. You're welcome to try.
The Holographic Assistant will instruct you as you make your way through the course. We'll be watching you, at various points, to track your progress. OK then, you may proceed, Gordon.
Secondary magnetic chargers are active and functioning nominally.
Quick! It's about to go critical!
No, don't go that way!
It's ready! You must go! Now!
Dies
It appears the containment system has completely failed.
Another important species revealed in action.
Don't just stand there! Pick up that gun and shoot it!
Gordon! Get away from the beams!
Oh it's you. I thought it might be another of the Administrator's men. They're everywhere this morning.
No, it's too late! I can't do it! I can't! We'll never make it!
Hello? Can anyone hear me?
Ah! Good morning, Gordon! Welcome to the Black Mesa Training Facility. Things are in a state of commotion this morning, but the Training Facility software should be in working condition
I'm going to stay here and wait for my colleagues.
Shouldn't you be under the test chamber by now?
Have you seen my coffee cup?
Please listen carefully as there is a little paperwork to take care of before we get started. Oh, I see that you have already signed our legal disclaimer: "I, Gordon Freeman, hereby agree to the following terms... Blah blah blah... In any case of serious injury, dismemberment, toxic poisoning, burns, rashes, lesions, blah blah, et cetera, et cetera. Hereby agree to waive all rights as an employee of the Black Mesa facility."
You'll have to shut down the surgical unit first. Peters switched it on but I'm afraid he never made it back.
Of course, you owe us nothing, Mr. Freeman. But you've come this far. You know as much about these creatures as anyone.
Please see the Half-Life: Uplink section.
Oh my, for a second I thought you were one of them.
Get away from there, Freeman! I'm expecting an important message!
...anyone read me? I say again, this is Lambda Labs. Can anyone read me? 
It's highly probable that our luck will change, don't you agree?
Oh dear. You've come just in time, but it may be too late for Gordon. Military forces are tracking his position with some success. Maybe you could destroy these tracking devices before Gordon finds himself in the wrong hands. He's our only hope!
I'm afraid these troops aren't going to make it. I hope you have better luck out there, or I fear none of us will get through this alive.
The alien species can't possibly all be hostile, can they?
Are you sure you checked the Eigen attenuators?
You know, this sort of reminds me of when I was involved in the space program. There was an incident with one of the chimps.
Please be still during the procedure. Don't worry, Doctor Cross, it should only take a few moments.
I just want to get out of this alive.
Gordon Freeman! You finally found us!
You'll just have to wait until after the test.
Well, it does seem there is something to chaos theory after all, yes?
Three, four, five...One, two...
Yes. You seem like someone I can trust.

Freeman, isn't it? You'll need to activate both pumps to flood the reactor, and then that access pipe down there will take you to the core. Time is short!
I don't concur.
You are from the Anomalous Materials Lab. Yes, I recognize you.
When all the fighting started, I hid myself here. I don't think any of them above have survived.
I have just been informed that the sample is ready, Gordon. It should be coming up to you any moment now. Look to the delivery system for your specimen.
Well, the dimensional breach is definitely transmitting organic matter.
I'll stay here.
Don't you think we should wait here for a while?
Right!
[muffled] [a]
I certainly hope those backup fusion shunts are in good shape today.
Good morning. They're waiting for you in the control room.
All right, I can open the portal now. The process is complicated, and once it's begun I must not be interrupted or I will have to start all over again. Don't enter the beam until I give the okay, understood? I will begin.
Okay, I hope you know what you're doing.
Allow me to treat that injury.
Will we ever make it out of here?
I seem to be wounded...but I can keep going.
Stage two emitters activating...now.
Hello. Uh, you're a corporal, aren't you?
Oh my God...we're doomed!
Are you insane? Stop attacking, immediately!
Good morning, Gordon.
Nothing you need to worry about, Gordon. Go ahead.
Greetings! It looks as though your data was lost in the system failure this morning. Not to worry, I can re-register you at this station. Step into the booth one at a time and I'll start the procedure.
Did you hear something?
Let's go.
Why didn't they listen!
My God, what are you doing?
Oh no.
Greetings!
Freeman. You want to work quickly. Tune the transmitter to US NRC. I repeat! Tune to the US NRC. 
Good work! You look prepared for the next station. 
Get back!
Get out of here! I can take it. 
I am rather looking forward to this analysis, aren't you?
No.
Oh no, you're one of the... them. Can't we just get along?
I see you found the Gluon Gun. I hope it serves you better than it has me. I built the thing, but I can't bring myself to use it on a living creature.
Why are you leaving me here?
I'm afraid I've trapped myself here to escape those beasts. Would you be so kind as to operate that transporter?
How interesting, just look at that.
Hurry up, Freeman, I can't keep it open forever!
Could it be possible that I smell your perfume through the HEV suit, hmm?
Shouldn't you be guarding something right now?
This is madness! I'm getting out of here!
Who can say?
Ah, excellent. Everything appears to be on schedule, and the experiment will be starting shortly. I will leave the loudspeaker on so you can hear what's happening upstairs.
Let me take care of that wound for you.
Pain
Of course not!
Five thousand.
Wouldn't you like to get one of these blood samples under a microscope?
Startled
For God's sake, open the silo door! They're coming for us; it's our only way out!
Help! Someone let us out of here!
Hello, soldier. I hope you're here to fix this mess.
No! Please!
Right.
We've boosted the Anti-Mass Spectrometer to 105 percent. Bit of a gamble, but we need the extra resolution.
We were able to contact a number of other remaining scientists, so with any luck some of them may make it here as well. We would have chosen the Lambda Reactor for an escape, but the crew there is bent on fighting the creatures, with all their hopes set on someone named Freeman. Let those fools try and fight a battle they can't win. I just want to get out of here! 
Cough
I'd give my right hemisphere for a few hours of sleep.
Well, don't just stand there. Do something!
These crab creatures have a unique parasitic strategy, don't you think?
No. I'm afraid I'm not Dr. Rosenberg, but you'll still help me, won't you?
This is my hiding spot, and I'm not moving until the situation is drastically improved. Now go away and don't tell anyone I'm here.
Yes, but with good reason. This is a rare opportunity for us. This is the purest sample we've seen yet.
Shouldn't we try to capture a specimen?
No!
Scientists! I'm saved!
You know, you repeat yourself sometimes.
Are you one hundred percent sure that theory of yours is correct?
You'll need to push the sample cart into the lift in order for the experiment to proceed.
We'd like you to bring the Anti-Mass Spectrometer online and take it up to eighty percent.
Tell him to stand back from the focal stage? That suit won't do him any good if he wanders into the beam.
As I expected.
If you would be so kind as to push the sample into the lift, we can start the experiment.
If you can make it up the elevator shaft, you should be able to get to the surface. Try to send help and let world know what has happened.
A soldier! I'm saved at last!
I don't suppose you'd reconsider?
What the hell is going on with our equipment? 
Uh...it's probably not a problem...probably...but I'm showing a small discrepancy in...well, no, it's well within acceptable bounds again. Sustaining sequence.
Have you ever seen anything like this?
Well, go ahead. Let's let him in now.
Are you thinking what I'm thinking?